|  No.  | [Questions](../0.0_python_questions.md)                                              |
| :---: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|       | [What is Python?](#ques-what-is-python)                                              |
|       | [Features of Python?](#ques-features-of-python)                                      |
|       | [Python Frameworks?](#ques-python-frameworks)                                        |
|       | [How to get Id of any object?](#ques-how-to-get-id-of-any-object)                    |
|       | [a=1, b=1 does both have same Id or not?](#ques-a1-b1-does-both-have-same-id-or-not) |

### **Ques. What is Python?**
* Python is a high-level, interpreted, general-purpose programming language.
* Python is an **interpreter** language. It means it executes the code line by line
* It was created by **Guido van Rossum**, and released in **1991**
* It is used for:
  * web development (server-side)
  * software development
  * mathematics
  * system scripting


### **Ques. Features of Python?**
1. __Easy:-__ Python is very easy to learn and understand; using this Python tutorial, any beginner can understand the basics of Python.
2. __Interpreted:-__ It is interpreted(executed) line by line. This makes it easy to test and debug.
3. __Object-Oriented:-__ The Python programming language supports classes and objects. We discussed these above.
4. __Free and Open Source:-__ The language and its source code are available to the public for free; there is no need to buy a costly license.
5. __Portable:-__ Since it is open-source, you can run Python on Windows, Mac, Linux or any other platform. Your programs will work without needing to the changed for every machine.
6. __GUI Programming:-__ You can use it to develop a GUI (Graphical User Interface). One way to do this is through Tkinter.
7. __Large Library:-__ Python provides you with a large standard library. You can use it to implement a variety of functions without needing to reinvent the wheel every time. Just pick the code you need and continue. This lets you focus on other important tasks.


### **Ques. Python Frameworks?**
* **Web Development:** Django, Pyramid, Bottle, Tornado, Flask, web2py
* **GUI Development:** tkInter, PyGObject, PyQt, PySide, Kivy, wxPython
* **Scientific and Numeric:** SciPy, Pandas, IPython
* **Software Development:** Buildbot, Trac, Roundup
* **System Administration:** Ansible, Salt, OpenStack, xonsh

### **Ques. How to get Id of any object?**
id() function takes a single parameter object.
```python
a = 5
print(id(a))
```

### **Ques. a=1, b=1 does both have same Id or not?**
* Two variables in Python have same id, but not in lists.
```python
a = 10
b = 10
print(id(a))
print(id(b))

Output:- 
9788992
9788992
```
* In List
```python
a = [1, 2, 3]
b = [1, 2, 3]
print(a is b)

Output:- False
```
* In tuples
```python
a = (1, 2, 3)
b = (1, 2, 3)
print(a is b)

Output:- True
```

1. NumPy
2. Pylons