|  No.  | [Questions](../0.0_python_questions.md)                                              |
| :---: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|       | [What is Python?](#ques-what-is-python)                                              |
|       | [Features of Python?](#ques-features-of-python)                                      |
|       | [Python Frameworks?](#ques-python-frameworks)                                        |
|       | [How to get Id of any object?](#ques-how-to-get-id-of-any-object)                    |
|       | [a=1, b=1 does both have same Id or not?](#ques-a1-b1-does-both-have-same-id-or-not) |
|       | [What is PEP 8?](#ques-what-is-pep-8)                                                |
|       | [Is indentation required in python?](#ques-is-indentation-required-in-python)        |

### Ques. What is Python?
* Python is a high-level, interpreted, general-purpose programming language.
* Python is an **interpreter** language. It means it executes the code line by line
* It was created by **Guido van Rossum**, and released in **1991**
* It is used for:
  * web development (server-side)
  * software development
  * mathematics
  * system scripting


### Ques. Features of Python?
1. __Easy:-__ Python is very easy to learn and understand; using this Python tutorial, any beginner can understand the basics of Python.
2. __Interpreted:-__ It is interpreted(executed) line by line. This makes it easy to test and debug.
3. __Object-Oriented:-__ The Python programming language supports classes and objects. We discussed these above.
4. __Free and Open Source:-__ The language and its source code are available to the public for free; there is no need to buy a costly license.
5. __Portable:-__ Since it is open-source, you can run Python on Windows, Mac, Linux or any other platform. Your programs will work without needing to the changed for every machine.
6. __GUI Programming:-__ You can use it to develop a GUI (Graphical User Interface). One way to do this is through Tkinter.
7. __Large Library:-__ Python provides you with a large standard library. You can use it to implement a variety of functions without needing to reinvent the wheel every time. Just pick the code you need and continue. This lets you focus on other important tasks.


### Ques. Python Frameworks?
* **Web Development:** Django, Pyramid, Bottle, Tornado, Flask, web2py
* **GUI Development:** tkInter, PyGObject, PyQt, PySide, Kivy, wxPython
* **Scientific and Numeric:** SciPy, Pandas, IPython
* **Software Development:** Buildbot, Trac, Roundup
* **System Administration:** Ansible, Salt, OpenStack, xonsh

### Ques. How to get Id of any object?
id() function takes a single parameter object.
```python
a = 5
print(id(a))
```

### Ques. a=1, b=1 does both have same Id or not?
* Two variables in Python have same id, but not in lists.
```python
a = 10
b = 10
print(id(a))
print(id(b))

Output:- 
9788992
9788992
```
* In List
```python
a = [1, 2, 3]
b = [1, 2, 3]
print(a is b)

Output:- False
```
* In tuples
```python
a = (1, 2, 3)
b = (1, 2, 3)
print(a is b)

Output:- True
```

### Ques. What is PEP 8?
* PEP stands for **Python Enhancement Proposal**. 
* It is a set of rules that specify how to format Python code for maximum readability.
* PEP8 is a document that provides various guidline to write the readable in python.
* PEP8 describe how the developers can write the beautiful code.

### Ques. Is indentation required in python?
Indentation is necessary for Python. It specifies a block of code. All code within loops, classes, functions, etc is specified within an indented block. It is usually done using four space characters. If your code is not indented necessarily, it will not execute accurately and will throw errors as well.

1. NumPy
2. Pylons